when I was nine years old
my mom asked me what I would want my
house to look like and I drew this fairy
mushroom and then she actually built it
I don't think I realized this was so
unusual at the time and maybe I still
haven't because I'm still designing
houses this is a six story bespoke home
on the island of Bali it's built almost
entirely from bamboo the living room
overlooks the valley from the fourth
floor you enter the house by a bridge it
can get hot in the tropics so we make
big curving roofs to catch the breezes
but some rooms have tall windows to keep
the air-conditioning in and the bugs out
this room we left open
we made an air-conditioned tented bed
and one client wanted a TV room in the
corner of her living room
boxing off an area with tall walls just
didn't feel right so instead we made
this giant woven pod now we do have all
the necessary luxuries like bathrooms
this one is a basket in the corner of
the living room and I got to tell you
some people actually hesitate to use it
we have not quite figured out our
acoustic insulation so there are lots of
things that we're still working on but
one thing I have learned is that bamboo
will treat you well if you use it right
it's actually a wild grass it grows on
otherwise unproductive land deep ravines
mountainsides it lives off of rainwater
spring water sunlight and of the 1450
species of bamboo that grow across the
world we use just seven of them that's
my dad he's the one who got me building
with bamboo
and he is standing in a clump of gender
columnist asked for Niger that he
planted just seven years ago each year
it sends up a new generation of shoots
that shoot we watched it grow a metre in
three days just last week so we're
talking about sustainable timber in
three years
now we harvest from hundreds of
family-owned clumps but Tong as we call
it it's really long up to 18 meters of
usable length try getting that truck
down the mountain and it's strong it has
the tensile strength of steel the
compressive strength of concrete slam
four tonnes straight down in a pole and
it can take it because it's hollow it's
lightweight light enough to be lifted by
just a few men or apparently one woman
and when my father built green school in
Bali
he chose bamboo for all of the buildings
on campus because he saw it as a promise
it's a promise to the kids it's one
sustainable material that they will not
run out of and when I first saw these
structures under construction about six
years ago I just thought this makes
perfect sense it is growing all around
us it's strong its elegant its
earthquake resistant why hasn't this
happened sooner and what can we do with
it next so along with some of the
original builders of green school I
found it EBU qu EBU means mother and COO
means mine so it represents my mother
earth and ebook who we're a team of
artisans architects and designers and
what we're doing together is creating a
new way of building over the past five
years together we have built over 50
unique structures most of them in Bali
nine of them are at Green Village you've
just seen inside some of these homes
and we fill them with bespoke furniture
we surround them with veggie gardens we
would love to invite you all to come
visit someday and while you're there you
can also see green school we keep
building classrooms there each year as
well as an updated fairy mushroom house
we're also working on a little house for
export this is a traditional Sumbanese
home that we replicated right down to
the details and textiles a restaurant
with an open-air kitchen looks a lot
like a kitchen right and a bridge that
spans 22 meters across the river now
what we're doing it's not entirely new
from little huts to elaborate bridges
like this one in Java bamboo has been in
use across the tropical regions of the
world for literally tens of thousands of
years there are islands and even
continents that were first reached by
bamboo rafts but until recently it was
almost impossible to reliably protect
bamboo from insects and so just about
everything that was ever built out of
bamboo was gone unprotected bamboo
weathers untreated bamboo gets eaten to
dust and so that's why most people
especially in Asia I think that you
couldn't be poor enough for rural enough
to actually want to live in a bamboo
house and so we thought what will it
take to change their minds to convince
people that bamboo is worth building
with much less with aspiring to first we
needed safe treatment solutions borax is
a natural salt it turns bamboo into a
viable building material treat it
properly design it carefully and a
bamboo structure can last a lifetime
second build something extraordinary out
of it inspire people
fortunately Balinese culture Foster's
craftsmanship it values the artisan so
combine those with the adventurous
outliers from new generations of locally
trained architects and designers
and engineers and always remember that
you are designing for curving tapering
hollow poles no two poles alike no
straight lines
no 2x4 is here the tried-and-true
well-crafted formulas and vocabulary of
architecture do not apply here we have
had to invent our own rules we asked the
bamboo what it's good at what it wants
to become and what it says is respect it
design for its strengths protect it from
water and to make the most of its curves
so we design in real 3d making scale
structural models out of the same
material that will later use to build
the house and bamboo model making it's
an art as well as some hardcore
engineering so that's the blueprint of
the house and we bring it to site and
with tiny rulers we measure each pole
and consider each curve and we choose a
piece of bamboo from the pile to
replicate that house on site when it
comes down to the details we consider
everything why our door is so often
rectangular why not round how could you
make a door better well its hinges
battle with gravity and gravity will
always win in the end
so why not have it pivot on the center
where it can stay balanced and while
you're at it why not
doors shaped like teardrops to reap the
Selective benefits and work within the
constraints of this material we have
really had to push ourselves and within
that constraint we have found space for
something new it's a challenge how do
you make a ceiling if you don't have any
flat boards to work with let me tell you
sometimes I dream of sheetrock and
plywood but if what you've got is
skilled craftsmen and itsy-bitsy little
splits weave that ceiling together
stretch a canvas over it lacquer it how
do you design durable kitchen
countertops
but do justice to this curving structure
you've just built slice up a boulder
like a loaf of bread hand carve each to
fit the other leave the crusts on and
what we're doing it is almost entirely
handmade the structural connections of
our buildings are reinforced by steel
joints but we use a lot of hand whittled
bamboo pins there are thousands of pins
in each floor this floor is made of
glossy and durable bamboo skin you can
feel the texture under bare feet and can
the floor that you walk on can it affect
the way that you walk can it change the
footprint that you'll ultimately leave
on the world I remembered being nine
years old I'm feeling Wonder and
possibility and a little bit of idealism
and we've got a really long way to go
there's a lot left to learn but one
thing I know is that with creativity and
commitment you can create beauty and
comfort and safety and even luxury out
of a material that will grow back thank
you
[Applause]